And when hee had called vnto him his twelue disciples, he gaue them power against vncleane spirits, to cast them out, and to heale all maner of sickenesse, and all maner of disease.

2Now the names of the twelue Apostles are these: The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, Iames the sonne of Zebedee, and Iohn his brother:

3Philip, and Bartholomew, Thomas, and Matthew the Publicane, Iames the sonne of Alpheus, and Lebbeus, whose surname was Thaddeus:

4Simon the Canaanite, and Iudas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.

5These twelue Iesus sent foorth, and commanded them, saying, Goe not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not:

6But goe rather to the lost sheepe of the house of Israel.

7And as yee goe, preach, saying, The kingdome of heauen is at hand:

8Heale the sicke, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out deuils: freely ye haue receiued, freely giue.

9Prouide neither gold, nor siluer, nor brasse in your purses:

10Nor scrippe for your iourney, neither two coats, neither shooes, nor yet staues: (for the workeman is worthy of his meat.)

11And into whatsoeuer city or towne ye shall enter, inquire who in it is worthy, and there abide till yee goe thence.

12And when ye come into an house, salute it.

13And if the house be worthy, let your peace come vpon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace returne to you.

14And whosoeuer shall not receiue you, nor heare your words: when yee depart out of that house, or city, shake off the dust of your feete.

15Uerely I say vnto you, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of iudgment, then for that citie.

16¶ Behold, I send you foorth as sheepe in the middest of wolues: be yee therefore wise as serpents, and harmelesse as doues.

17But beware of men: for they will deliuer you vp to the Councils, and they will scourge you in their Synagogues,

18And yee shall be brought before Gouernours and Kings for my sake, for a testimonie against them, and the Gentiles.

19But when they deliuer you vp, take no thought, how or what ye shall speake, for it shall bee giuen you in that same houre what ye shall speake.

20For it is not yee that speake, but the Spirit of your Father, which speaketh in you.

21And the brother shall deliuer vp the brother to death, and the father the childe: and the children shall rise vp against their parents, and cause them to be put to death.

22And yee shall be hated of all men for my Names sake: but he that endureth to the end, shalbe saued.

23But when they persecute you in this citie, flee ye into another: for verely I say vnto you, ye shall not haue gone ouer the cities of Israel, till the Sonne of man be come.

24The disciple is not aboue his master, nor the seruant aboue his lord.

25It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the seruant as his Lord: If they haue called the Master of the house of Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household?

26Feare them not therefore: for there is nothing couered, that shall not be reueiled; and hidde, that shall not be knowen.

27What I tell you in darkenesse, that speake yee in light: and what yee heare in the eare, that preach yee vpon the house tops.

28And feare not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soule: but rather feare him which is able to destroy both soule and body in hell.

29Are not two Sparrowes solde for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.

30But the very haires of your head are all numbred.

31Feare yee not therefore, ye are of more value then many Sparrowes.

32Whosoeuer therefore shall confesse mee before men, him will I confesse also before my Father which is in heauen.

33But whosoeuer shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heauen.

34Thinke not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.

35For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, & the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.

36And a mans foes shalbe they of his owne houshold.

37He that loueth father or mother more then me, is not worthy of me: and he that loueth sonne or daughter more then me, is not worthy of me.

38And he that taketh not his crosse, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me.

39He that findeth his life, shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it.

40¶ He that receiueth you, receiueth me: and he that receiueth mee, receiueth him that sent me.

41He that receiueth a Prophet in the name of a Prophet, shall receiue a Prophets reward: and he that receiueth a righteous man, in the name of a righteous man, shal receiue a righteous mans reward.

42And whosoeuer shall giue to drinke vnto one of these litle ones, a cup of cold water onely, in the name of a disciple, verily I say vnto you, hee shall in no wise lose his reward.
